= 3.0.14 [2012-08-23]
* Fix for using validates :timeliness => {} form to correctly add attributes to timeliness validated attributes.

= 3.0.13 [2012-08-21]
* Fix ActiveRecord issues with using plugin parser by using old way of caching values.
* Allow any ActiveRecord non-column attribute to be validated

= 3.0.12 [2012-06-23]
* Fix load order issue when relying on Railtie to load ActiveRecord extension

= 3.0.11 [2012-04-01]
* Change dependency on Timeliness version due to a broken release

= 3.0.10 [2012-03-26]
* Fix for ActiveRecord shim and validation with :allow_blank => true in AR 3.1+. Fixes issue#52.

= 3.0.9 [2012-03-26]
* ActiveRecord 3.1+ suport
* Fixes for multiparameter extension with empty date values (thanks @mogox, @Sharagoz)

= 3.0.8 [2011-12-24]
* Remove deprecated InstanceMethods module when using AS::Concern (carlosantoniodasilva)
* Update Mongoid shim for v2.3 compatability.

= 3.0.7 [2011-09-21]
* Fix ActiveRecord before_type_cast extension for non-dirty attributes.
* Don't override AR before_type_cast for >= 3.1.0 which now has it's own implementation for date/time attributes.
* Fix DateTimeSelect extension to convert params to integers (#45)
* Add #change method to DateTimeSelect extension (@trusche, #45)
* Cleanup Mongoid shim.

= 3.0.6 [2011-05-09]
* Fix for AR type conversion for date columns when using plugin parser.
* Add timeliness_type_cast_code for ORM specific type casting after parsing.

= 3.0.5 [2011-01-29]
* Fix for Conversion#parse when given nil value (closes issue #34)

= 3.0.4 [2011-01-22]
* Fix :between option which was being ignored (ebeigarts)
* Use class_attribute to remove deprecated class_inheritable_accessor
* Namespace copied validator class to ActiveModel::Validations::Timeliness for :timeliness option

= 3.0.3 [2010-12-11]
* Fix validation of values which don't respond to to_date or to_time (renatoelias)

= 3.0.2 [2010-12-04]
* Fix AR multiparameter extension for Date columns
* Update to Timeliness 0.3.2 for zone abbreviation and offset support

= 3.0.1 [2010-11-02]
* Generate timeliness write methods in an included module to allow overriding in model class (josevalim)

= 3.0.0 [2010-10-18]
* Rails 3 and ActiveModel compatibility
* Uses ActiveModel::EachValidator as validator base class.
* Configuration settings stored in ValidatesTimeliness module only. ValidatesTimeliness.setup block to configure.
* Parser extracted to the Timeliness gem http://github.com/adzap/timeliness
* Parser is disabled by default. See initializer for enabling it.
* Removed RSpec matcher. Encouraged poor specs by copy-pasting from spec to model, or worse, the other way round.
* Method override for parsing and before type cast values is on validated attributes only. Old version handled all date/datetime columns, validates or not. Too intrusive.
* Add validation helpers to classes using extend_orms config setting. e.g. conf.extend_orms = [ :active_record ]
* Changed :between option so it is split into :on_or_after and :on_or_before option values. The error message for either failing check will be used instead of a between error message.
* Provides :timeliness option key for validates class method. Be sure to pass :type option as well e.g. :type => :date.
* Allows validation methods to be called on record instances as per ActiveModel API.
* Performs parsing (optional) and raw value caching (before_type_cast) on validated attributes only. It used to be all date, time and datetime attributes.

= 2.3.1 [2010-03-19]
* Fixed bug where custom attribute writer method for date/times were being overriden

= 2.3.0 [2010-02-04]
* Backwards incompatible change to :equal_to option. Fixed error message clash with :equal_to option which exists in Rails already. Option is now :is_at.
* Fixed I18n support so it returns missing translation message instead of error
* Fixed attribute method bug. Write method was bypassed when method was first generated and used Rails default parser.
* Fixed date/time selects when using enable_datetime_select_extension! when some values empty
* Fixed ISO8601 datetime format which is now split into two formats
* Changed I18n error value format to fallback to global default if missing in locale
* Refactored date/time select invalid value extension to use param values. Functionality will be extracted from plugin for v3.

= 2.2.2 [2009-09-19]
* Fixed dummy_time using make_time to respect timezone. Fixes 1.9.1 bug.

= 2.2.1 [2009-09-12]
* Fixed dummy date part for time types in Validator.type_cast_value
* No more core extensions! Removed dummy_time methods.

= 2.2.0 [2009-09-12]
* Ruby 1.9 support!
* Customise dummy date values for time types. See DUMMY DATE FOR TIME TYPES.
* Fixed matcher conflict with Shoulda. Load plugin matcher manually now see matcher section in README
* Fixed :ignore_usec when used with :with_time or :with_date
* Some clean up and refactoring

= 2.1.0 [2009-06-20]
* Added ambiguous year threshold setting in Formats class to customize the threshold for 2 digit years (See README)
* Fixed interpolation values in custom error message for Rails 2.2+
* Fixed custom I18n local override of en locale
* Dramatically simplified ActiveRecord monkey patching and hackery

= 2.0.0 [2009-04-12]
* Error value formats are now specified in the i18n locale file instead of updating plugin hash. See OTHER CUSTOMISATION section in README.
* Date/time select helper extension is disabled by default. To enable see DISPLAY INVALID VALUES IN DATE HELPERS section in README to enable.
* Added :format option to limit validation to a single format if desired
* Matcher now supports :equal_to option
* Formats.parse can take :include_offset option to include offset value from string in seconds, if string contains an offset. Offset not used in rest of plugin yet.
* Refactored to remove as much plugin code from ActiveRecord as possible.

= 1.1.7 [2009-03-26]
* Minor change to multiparameter attributes which I had not properly implemented for chaining

= 1.1.6 [2009-03-19]
* Rail 2.3 support
* Added :with_date and :with_time options. They allow an attribute to be combined with another attribute or value to make a datetime value for validation against the temporal restrictions
* Added :equal_to option
* Option key validation
* Better behaviour with other plugins using alias_method_chain on read_attribute and define_attribute_methods
* Added option to enable datetime_select extension for future use to optionally enable. Enabled by default until version 2.
* Added :ignore_usec option for datetime restrictions to be compared without microsecond
* some refactoring

= 1.1.5 [2009-01-21]
* Fixed regex for 'yy' format token which wasn't greedy enough for date formats ending with year when a datetime string parsed as date with a 4 digit year

= 1.1.4 [2009-01-13]
* Make months names respect i18n in Formats

= 1.1.3 [2009-01-13]
* Fixed bug where time and date attributes still being parsed on read using Rails default parser [reported by Brad (pvjq)]

= 1.1.2 [2009-01-12]
* Fixed bugs
  * matcher failing for custom error message without interpolation keys using I18n
  * validator custom error messages not being extracted

= 1.1.1 [2009-01-03]
* Fixed bug in matcher for options local variable

= 1.1.0 [2009-01-01]
* Added between option

= 1.0.0 [2008-12-06]
* Gemified!
* Refactor of plugin into a Data Mapper style validator class which makes for a cleaner implementation and possible future Merb\Data Mapper support
* Added Rails 2.2 i18n support. Plugin error messages can specified in locale files. See README.
* ignore_datetime_restriction_errors setting has been moved from AR to ValidatesTimeliness::Validator.ignore_restriction_errors
* date_time_error_value_formats setting has been moved from AR to ValidatesTimeliness::Validator.error_value_formats
* Namespaced modules and specs
* Clean up of specs
* fixed a few bugs
  * accessor methods not generating properly due method name stored as symbol in generated_attributes which fails on lookup
  * force value assigned to time/datetime attributes to time objects

= 0.1.0 [2008-12-06]
* Tagged plugin as version 0.1.0

= 2008-11-13
* allow uppercase meridian to be valid [reported by Alex (http://alex.digns.com/)]

= 2008-10-28
* fixed bug when dirty attributes not reflecting change when attribute changed from time value to nil [reported by Brad (pvjq)]
* fixes for Rails 2.2 compatibility. Will refactor in to Rails version specific branches in the future.

= 2008-09-24
* refactored attribute write method definitions

= 2008-08-25
* fixed bug for non-timezone write method not updating changed attributes hash [reported by Sylvestre Mergulhão]

= 2008-08-22
* fixed bug with attribute cache not clearing on write for date and time columns [reported by Sylvestre Mergulhão]
* parse method returns Date object for date column assigned string as per normal Rails behaviour
* parse method returns same object type when assigned Date or Time object as per normal Rails behaviour

= 2008-08-07
* modified matcher option value parsing to allow same value types as validation method
* fixed matcher message

= 2008-08-02
* refactored validation
* refactored matcher

= 2008-07-30
* removed setting values to nil when validation fails to preserve before_type_cast value
